♪ [music] ♪
Let's do a little bit of clean up. We're
going to get rid of this
myMiddleware here, not
necessary for us to need it
anymore. And then we'll open up our
index.js which has our routes file and
we'll take out that middleware. We're
going to be using a lot more middleware in
this course. But for now, our main route,
we'll only get our storeController
homepage. Now, let's talk about models.
Models are where our data is going to be
stored. And before we can actually create
a piece of data, we're going to be able to
create stores. Before we can create a
piece of data, we need to sort of describe
what that data will look like ahead of
time. The simplest way that I can put it
is if you were making a spreadsheet, what
would you do ahead of time is you would
start to create all of the column headings
for the different data that you expect to
have. Now, a model can go a little bit
further in terms of telling what type of
data it expects whether it's a string or
an array. It can do a little bit of clean
up before the data is saved. It can do
things like creating a slug.
We're going to be looking into all of
that. And that's how we do it.
Now, before we get into this, I just want
to say MongoDB can be what's called a
loose database. Meaning that you do not
need to specify what your data will look
like ahead of time. Sort of, like, if you
have a JavaScript object,
and you don't need to specify what the
properties on that object are.
You just go ahead and start using them.
However, by default, out of the box,
MongoDB is strict in terms of it will only
allow you to save data that it knows about
beforehand, and that's the way that I like
to keep it. Because if you sort of just
start going willy-nilly, adding data
wherever it is that you would like,
sort of, like, if you had an object and
you started going willy-nilly,
adding data to your object, it can get out
of hand really quickly and it leads to
some headaches down the road once you
start trying to scale your application.
So we're going to be doing everything in
strict mode. Which means that you need to
define your schema beforehand.
So let's go ahead and go to our model's
folder and we are going to create a new
model called Store.js, capital S on that.
And in that model, we're going to need a
couple things. First, we're going to need
a package called "mongoose." So MongoDB is
our database and mongoose is the package
that we use to interface.
Because MongoDB can be used with any
language, whether you're doing Python or
Ruby or PHP. And one of the popular ways
to interface with MongoDB in node is with
a mongoose package. Const mongoose=,
require the mongoose package.
Next, we also need to tell mongoose that
the Promise to use is the global.
Promise. And what does that mean there?
When we get into queering our database,
there's a couple of ways that we can wait
for our data to come back from the
database because it happens synchronously.
You can use the built-in callbacks.
You can use a external library, Promise
library like Bluebird.
Or what we're going to be doing, because
we're going to be learning about something
called async/await is that we are using
the built-in ES6 Promise.
So we essentially set the mongoose Promise
property to be global which is sort of,
like, the Window in the browser. That's
our global variable. And the access is the
capital P, Promise. So that's like if you
were to open up your DevTools here and
type in "Promise", you'll see that you get
the native Promise.
That's exactly what we're doing here.
Now that global, don't ever put stuff on
it. It's tempting just to put everything
on the global as you have on the Window,
but it's generally not what you want.
Finally, we need a library called slugs.
So const slug=require('slugs'),
make sure you have a S on there. What
that's going to do is it's going to allow
us to make URL friendly names for our
slugs, sort of, like, if you've ever used
the word "press permalink". Now we need to
go ahead and make our schema.
So we will make it, storeSchema=new
mongoose. Schema. Pass that an object.
And then before we even specify any of the
properties on our schema,
we'll go ahead and export that sucker. Now
previously, we did export.
whatever it is that we wanted, is equal
to a function. Now if you are...if the
main thing that you're exporting from a
file is going to be importable,
then you can put it on module.exports=. So
you see here, we just say,
here, we do module exports because it's
the main thing that we're exporting.
But if we open up our storeController, you
notice that we're just exporting
properties on the export variable. And the
difference between that is not a huge
thing. But it all boils down to when you
import a package, is the main thing that
you import from it going to be a function
or are you just importing an object that
has many properties on it, or they can
also be both. So we'll go more into that.
You'll see more examples. So that's why
it's module.exports.
And we'll say mongoose.model, and we're
going to name that model capital S,
Store, and we're going to give our schema
which, again, will describe what our data
looks like. Good, now we can go ahead and
start putting all of our properties.
So the first thing that we're going to
have, we're going to have a name,
we're going to have a slug, we are going
to have a description,
and we are going to have tags. The name is
going to be a String.
So we could just type string here, and
that will know that when it saves it to
the database, it will be saved as a
string. But there's a couple other things
that we need to pass along here. So rather
than just passing string,
you can also pass it an object which has
all of our properties on it.
So the type is going to be a String. And
we can also specific different properties
like trim, and that's going to be set to
true. So if somebody tries to pass in a
name or has, like, a Store Name here, what
it will automatically do before it saves
it is it's going to take out the white
space on either end.
So my general rule of thumb is do all of
your data normalization as close to the
model as possible. So if the model has a
property built-in that will trim it,
do it on the model rather than having to
do it right before you save it and do any
validation. So we'll say trim is true. And
it's also required...so we can say
required, true. However, if you try to
save a Store without a name,
it's going to give us some, like, ugly
MongoDB error message which isn't very
user-friendly. So rather than passing it
true [inaudible] we can pass it an error
message which will act as true as well as
give us the error if someone doesn't pass
it. So let's say, "Please enter a store
name." Good, so that's it.
The slug, what will the slug be? Slug will
just be a String, so not necessary to do
an object here because it's just a String.
The description is going to be a String as
well. So we'll say type, we'll say String,
and we'll also trim it to be true.
And our tags is going to be an array of
Strings. So what we do there is we
pass it an array here and we say it
will be an array of Strings,
and that means we'll pass multiple Strings
sometimes, because there's going to be
multiple tags, and each one of them will
be put inside an array like that.
So we give that a save. And we need to
know kick-start this model and make
MongoDB known about it. Oh, I got a red
error here, make sure
you put a comma right there.
So how do we make MongoDB know about this
actual model? Because we've created the
model here, however we haven't import it
into our application anywhere.
Well, we're go into our Store.js. We'll go
right where it says,
"Ready, let's go." and we are going to
import all of our models.
So let's say import all our models. And
importing our models, you only have to do
it once because as soon as you connect to
MongoDB and as soon as you import your
models, MongoDB will know about them
throughout your entire application.
It's using a concept in node called a
singleton which means that once you
configure it, you don't have to keep doing
it in every single file because that would
be a bit of a pain to have to import our
models and connect to the database on the
top of every single file. So we're simply
just going to require our models folder,
and this one's called Store.js. Again, you
don't need to put the .js on the end,
it is assumed. So we'll come back to that,
import the rest of our
models as we have it running.
Just to make sure that everything is
running fine, let's go back to our local
host and refresh. I got an error here,
let's open it up. String is not defined.
Let's go back to our Store here. You're
probably yelling at me,
"Oh, silly Wes." Capital S, String. There
we go. Refresh the page,
and you should see your "hi" pop up on the
page. That's how you know nothing has gone
wrong while we created this. But take a
look at our data here,
name, slug, description, and tags, we're
going to be supplying with the name,
the description, and the tags. However,
the slug is gonna be auto generated
whenever somebody saves. What we use for
that is a pre-save hook in MongoDB.
Meaning that before somebody saves a
Store, we are going to auto generate the
slug field so that they can be passed in.
So the way we do that is we take our
storage schema and we pre-save. So before
it is saved, we are going to run a
function which gives us a next value. So
this has to be a proper function,
not an arrow here. And the reason why is
because we need this.
What is this going to be equal to? This
will be equal to the Store that we are
trying to save. So we will say
this.slug=slug(this.name). And what that
will do is it will take the name that you
passed it, run it through our slug package
that we imported at the top here and set
the slug property to be
whatever the output of the slug is.
Once we've done that, we call next which
is...this is sort of,
like, a middleware as well where you set
the slug property and then you move along
which will allow us to save. Remember,
doing this before the save so the save
will not happen until we're done, whatever
work it is that we're trying to do inside
of this function. Now that will happen
every single time that we save a Store,
which is not what we need. We only need to
run this function when the name has been
changed. So we'll go up here. We'll say if
[inaudible] this.isModified,
name, so we wanna say if the Store's name
is not modified then we just want to call
next, skip it, and return which will stop
this function from running.
Sometimes you'll see people say return
next in one line, absolutely fine as well.
I'm just doing it for explicitly sake, to
be explicit. So we have our next,
we have a return if the name is not, we're
going to skip it. Otherwise,
we're going to set the slug to be the slug
of this.name and call next.
Now, that is going to be okay for now but
we're going to come back and do a little
bit more advanced version in the future.
Because if people have a store named Tim
Hortons, then you're going to have
overlapping slugs, and you can't have
that. So we'll come back and it will say
TODO make more resilient so slugs are
unique, and we'll check there. So we can
do unique 1, unique 2,
unique 3, depending on if that slug
already exists. Good. Give it a quick
refresh. No errors, I'm happy. Let's move
on to actually saving some data.
♪ [music] ♪